In this lecture, we're going to create our first Maven project.
Now, there's two ways to Crater Maven project.
First way is through Eclipse.
And the second way is for you to come online.
So in this lecture, I'm going to demonstrate how we can do this in Eclipse.
And in the next video, I'll demonstrates how we can do this in command line.
So I have eclipse open and we have now finished with the intro project.
So I'm going to minimize that like so.
I'm then going to click File New Project.
And you can see it as a folder for Maven.
And if I expand that, we've got the option for Maven project.
I'm going to highlight that and then click next.
So the default workspace should be ticked.
And if I browse to that, you'll see that it's pointing to my resources folder in a workspace folder.
So I'm going to keep that as is and then click next.
So this is the archetypes that we have available.
And it can take a few moments to load.
So please be patient.
So this is like a list of different templates that we can use for our MAVEN project.
So before I select one of these, I'm going to open up Chrome and I'm going to tie it.
Maven Quickstart art type.
And you should be provided with the following result.
So if I click this link.
You'll see the following page.
So this is a Maven type quickstart template.
And this is similar to what I demonstrated to you earlier.
So it has a project POM structure and a source folder for main and test.
So we're going to use this template.
So if you highlight this and copy it and then go back to Eclipse and then paste it in the filter.
You should see some results will appear.
So, again, this will take a moment.
So we want the one from org Apache maven archetypes and the artifact by the is maven archetype quickstart.
So if I click on next.
It's going to ask me for group point, the artifact guide and the versions already selected.
So the group point I'm going to use is UK.
Echo the automation testing.
And the artifact I.D..
I'm just going to call this Maven project.
And then I am going to click Finish.
Eclipse would then begin creating a Maven project for you.
And once that's finished loading, you can see Maven project is now listed.
If I expand that.
You'll see that it contains a similar structure to that template demonstrated.
So here we have the project.
Here we have the pom file and we have a source main java and a source text java folder.
And if I expand those.
You'll see the following.
So these are demo files and we can remove those later.
But we have now successfully created a MAVEN project in Eclipse.
So we'll be looking at this in more detail in the next few lectures.
But for now, I hope you found this useful.
And thank you for watching.